[ APPLAUSE ]
>>> GOOD MORNING, EVERYONE.
WELCOME TO THE PROGRAM.
I'M MEGYN KELLY.
WE BEGIN THIS MORNING WITH
GRAMMY-WINNING SINGER/SONG
WRITER R. KELLY.
HE'S HAD A STRING OF HIT SONGS
OVER TWO DECADES INCLUDING "I
BELIEVE I CAN FLY," "BUMP AND
GRIND" AND "STEP IN THE NAME OF
LOVE."
HE'S COLLABORATED WITH JAY-Z,
KANYE WEST, LADY GAGA AND
OTHERS.
BUT R. KELLY HAS BEEN THE
SUBJECT OF A STRING OF SEXUAL
MISCONDUCT ALLEGATIONS DATING
BACK TO THE 1990s.
AND NOW, THE #TIMESUP MOVEMENT
IS GIVING ATTENTION TO HIM.
IN RECENT DAYS, MORE AND MORE
PEOPLE HAVE COME FORWARD WITH
THEIR DEVASTATING STORIES.
I WILL SPEAK WITH TWO WOMEN IN
MOMENTS WHO SAY THEY HAD
RELATIONSHIPS WITH THE SINGER
AND ARE READY TO DETAIL WHAT HE
DID.
AND PARENTS OF ONE WOMAN WHO
SAYS THEIR DAUGHTER IS CURRENTL
FIRST, SOME BACKGROUND.
FOR DECADES, R. KELLY HAS BEEN
ACCUSED OF INAPPROPRIATE
BEHAVIOR WITH WOMEN AND TEENAGE
GIRLS.
NOW, BIG HOLLYWOOD NAMES, LIKE
EVA AND SHODA RHIMES ARE
CALLING FOR AN INVESTIGATION
INTO ABUSE ALLEGATIONS MADE BY
WOMEN OF COLOR AND THEIR
FAMILIES AND THE BOYCOTT OF
KELLY'S MUSIC.
>> JOYCE LYNN IS 22 YEARS OLD.NI
>> I'M HAPPY WHERE I AM AT.
>> ONLY THING WE WANTED FROM DAY
ONE WAS TO SEE OUR DAUGHTER,
MAKE SURE SHE WAS PHYSICALLY
FINE AND MENTALLY FINE.
>> Reporter: IN 1994, KELLY
REPORTEDLY MARRIED THE SINGER,
AALIYAH, WHO WAS 15 YEARS OLD AT
THE TIME, A UNION THAT WTS WITHA
BELIEVE I CAN FLY."
รก I BELIEVE I CAN FLY รก
>> Reporter: KELLY WAS THE
SUBJECT OF NUMEROUS LAWSUITS
BROUGHT BY WOMEN BUT HAS NEVER
BEEN CONVICTED OF SEXUAL
MISCONDUCT.
IN 2008, HE WAS ACQUITTED OF
CHILD PORNOGRAPHY CHARGES, AFTER
THE RELEASED OF AN ANONYMOUS SEX
TAPE.
DURING AN INTERVIEW ON B.E.T.
THAT SAME YEAR, HIS ANSWER TO A
QUESTION SHOCKED MANY VIEWERS.
>> DO YOU LIKE TEENAGE GIRLS?
>> WHEN YOU SAY TEENAGE, HOW OLD
ARE WE TALKING?
>> Reporter: KELLY HAS DENIED
ALL ACCUSATIONS AS WOMEN
CONTINUE COMING FORWARD AGAINST
HIM.
PLEASE HELP ME WELCOME JOYCE
LYNN'S PARENTS, TIM AND JOHN
SAVAGE.
WELCOME TO YOU BOTH.
THANK YOU FOR BEING HERE.
>> THANK YOU.
>> YOUR DAUGHTER IS STILL WITH
HIM.
AND YOU HEARD HER ON THE TAPE
SAYING, I'M FINE.
I'M OKAY.
AND SHE'S SAYING TO YOU, STAND
DOWN.
WHY ARE YOU CONCERNED?
>> THE REASON WHY WE'RE
CONCERNED IS BECAUSE, JOYCE LYNN
IS IN A POINT OF A SITUATION OF
HER LIFE WHERE SHE IS BEING
CONTROLLED.
I KNOW MY DAUGHTER, WE RAISED
HER FROM BIRTH.
WHEN WE SEE THOSE ACTIONS COME
OUT ON TMZ AND OTHER SOURCES,
THEY ONLY COME OUT ON TMZ.
R. KELLY HAS A MANAGEMENT TEAM
THAT CONTROLS HIS WHOLE
PLATFORM.
WHEN MY DAUGHTER CAME OUT AND
SPOKE THAT WAY, THAT'S NOT MY
DAUGHTER.
>> YOU THINK SHE'S BEING
MANIPULATED?
>> YES.
>> CAN WE GO BACK TO HOW YOU GOT
CONNECTED WITH R. KELLY?
YOU HAVE THREE DAUGHTERS.
>> YES.
>> YOUR DAUGHTER WENT TO AN R.
KELLY CONCERT, JOYCE LYNN,
RIGHT?
>> ORIGINALLY, ONE OF MY CLIENTS
CAME INTO MY BOUTIQUE IN
ATLANTA, GEORGIA.
SHE HAD A CONTACT THAT SHE WAS
CLOSE TO, THAT SHE WANTED TO
INTRODUCE US TO AFTER HEARING
ABOUT MY GIRLS.
WE MET KEVIN GILES.
THAT'S HOW IT STARTED.
>> Reporter: S
>> SHE GOES TO AN R. KELLY
CONCERT.
LATER, HE FLEW YOU TO PALM
SPRINGS.
YOU'RE THINKING WHAT?
>> EVERYTHING WAS SET UP
PROFESSIONALLY.
WAS IT OKAY FOR US TO COME OUT.
EVERYTHING WAS SET UP WITH HIS
ASSISTANT.
EVERYTHING WAS PROFESSIONALLY,
FROM THE CAR SERVICE, AIRLINE
TICKETS, HOTELS.
WE COMMUNICATED AND ARRANGED
EVERYTHING THROUGH THE
ASSISTANT.
WE HAD NO IDEA THAT IT WAS ANY
MORE THAN A PROFESSIONAL
RELATIONSHIP.
>> THAT'S 2015.
DID YOU KNOW AT THAT POINT ABOUT
THE SEX TAPE WITH THE ALLEGED
14-YEAR-OLD AND HIS ATTEMPTED
MARRIAGE WITH A 15-YEAR-OLD?
>> I HAD HEARD ABOUT THAT, YES.
I WAS A FAN OF R. KELLY'S IN THE
'90s.
BUT THE PERCEPTION YOU HAVE OF
THE ARTIST IF YOU DON'T KNOW
THEM, IS DIFFERENT FROM
MR. KELLY THE MAN.
>> YOU CAN'T BELIEVE THE
CHARGES?
>> I COULDN'T SAY I WOULD
BECAUSE I WAS NOT IMPACTED AS I
AM NOW.
AND LOOKING BACK, HINDSIGHT, I
WISH I HAD KNEW MORE.
BUT AT THE SAME TIME, NO ONE HAD
SPOKEN OUT.
WHAT WE'RE GOING THROUGH NOW IS
MORE SEVERELY THAN I WOULD EVER
HAVE IMAGINED.
>> THERE'S A LESSON RIGHT THERE
FOR PEOPLE OUT THERE, WHO YOU
KNOW, YOU WANT TO BELIEVE
SOMETHING OTHER THAN WHAT YOU
KNOW IS STARING YOU IN THE FACE.
AND NOW, YOU'VE EXPERIENCED IT
FIRSTHAND.
YOU FIND OUT AFTER YOU WENT OUT
TO PALM SPRINGS THAT WHAT?
HE HAD BEEN CONTACTING HER
WITHOUT YOUR KNOWLEDGE?
THEY WERE GETTING CLOSER.
>> WITHOUT OUR KNOWLEDGE, SHE
WAS BEING CONTACTED.
WE DIDN'T HAVE NO IDEA THAT WAS
GOING ON AT THE TIME.
>> SHE WAS HOW OLD?
>> I THINK JOYCE LYNN WAS 19 AT
THE TIME.
>> SHE'S IN COLLEGE.
AND SHE TELLS YOU ONE DAY WHAT?
>> SHE DIDN'T TELL US.
WE GOT A CALL FROM HER ROOMMATE
THAT SHE DIDN'T RETURN FOR THE
SPRING SEMESTER.
HER ROOM WAS CLEANED OUT.
>> WHY?
WHERE WAS SHE GOING?
>> WE HAD NO KNOWLEDGE.
WE FINALLY FIGURED OUT AND
CONFRONTED THAT SHE WAS WITH
MR. KELLY.
WE HAD PAID TUITION DUES AND
RENEWED HER FOR THE UPCOMING
SEMESTER.
OUT OF THE BLUE, GONE.
>> SHE MOVED IN WITH HIM?
>> YES.
>> HOW DID YOU GET UPDATED ON
WHAT WAS HAPPENING INSIDE OF
THAT HOUSE?
>> CHAUNCEY McGEE.
>> ANOTHER WOMAN YOU'RE GOING TO
MEET IN A MOMENT.
>> WE BECAME CLOSE.
SHE COMMUNICATED WITH ME FOR
THREE MONTHS OVER SOCIAL MEDIA.
I WAS THANKFUL FOR THAT.
A LOT OF THE THINGS SHE WAS
TELLING ME, I WAS ABLE TO
CONFIRM WHAT SHE WAS TELLING ME
WAS ACCURATE.
SHE MIGHT CALL ME AND SAY, YOUR
DAUGHTER JUST LEFT TO GO TO
CLASS.
AND I WOULD CALL HER AT THIS
TIME, SHE WAS STILL LIVING ON
CAMPUS.
AND I ASKED, DID YOU JUST LEAVE?
AND SHE ADMITTED IT.
>> WHAT DID YOU HEAR THAT
CONCERNED YOU?
>> IT'S NOT WHAT I HEARD
INITIALLY.
BUT WHAT INITIALLY BROUGHT US
THE CAUTIONS WAS BECAUSE HER
PHONE WAS NO LONGER UNDER HER
NAME.
NO ANSWERING THE PHONE CALLS.
I'M USED TO TALKING TO MY
DAUGHTER EVERY DAY OR EVERY
OTHER DAY.
IT BECAME MORE LIKE, WHAT I SAY
A CULT.
>> YOU SAW THINGS TAKE OVER.
TAKE OVER HER PHONE.
TAKE OVER HER CALLING HOME.
WE'RE A CLOSE-KNIT FAMILY.
WE'RE VERY CLOSE.
>> SHE WASN'T ALLOWED TO COME TO
HER GRANDAD'S FUNERAL.
>> YOU FELT HE WAS EXERTING
CONTROL THAT CONTACT WAS BEING
CUT OFF?
>> DEFINITELY.
>> IN DECEMBER 2015, YOU HAD AN
INTERVENTION WITH HER, TRYING TO
SPEAK SENSE TO HER AND GET HER
AWAY FROM R. KELLY.
YOU VIDEOTAPED IT AND PUT IT ON
YOUTUBE.
WHY DID YOU DO THAT?
>> PEOPLE NEED TO KNOW THIS MAN
IS A PREDATOR.
CERTAIN WORDS YOU WOULD SAY TO
JOYCE LYNN, IT TRIGGERED HER.
IT TRIGGERED HER TO RUN OUT OF
THE HOUSE LIKE A MAD WOMAN.
I WAS LIKE, WHAT IS GOING ON?
I REACHED OVER TO TAKE HER BACK
TO HER DORM AFTER THE
INTERVENTION, I SAID, LET'S TAKE
HER BACK TO THE DORM, WE'LL
VISIT HER IN THE MORNING.
AS I WAS TAKING HER BACK TO THE
DORM, WE WERE DOWNTOWN ATLANTA,
I REACH OVER AND SHE FREEZED UP
LIKE SOMEBODY HAD BEEN BEATING
ON HER.
HER ROOMMATE WAS THERE AND JOYCE
LYNN LOCKED HERSELF UP IN A
RESTAURANT.
>> THERE ARE ALLEGATIONS THAT R.
KELLY IS ENGAGING IN ABUSE OF
SEVERAL WOMEN RIGHT NOW IN HIS
HOUSE.
PHYSICAL, SEXUAL AND EMOTIONAL
ABUSE.
WE REACHED OUT TO HIS
REPRESENTATIVES.
WE GOT A STATEMENT BACK FROM
JOYCE LYNN, YOUR DAUGHTER, WHO
SAYS I'M AN ADULT.
22 YEARS OLD, AND I CALL ON MY
PARENTS TO STOP TELLING LIES
ABOUT ME AND R. KELLY.
MY PARENTS ARE HURTING ME AS
DEPICTING ME AS BRAINWASHED.
MY PARENTS WERE LOOKING OUT FOR
THEIR OWN FINANCIAL GAIN, HOPING
THAT R. KELLY WOULD MAKE ME AN
INSTANT STAR.
I HAPPEN TO CARE FOR R. KELLY
AND I ENJOY MY RELATIONSHIP WITH
HILL.
>> AS YOU SEE THAT, JOYCE LYNN'S
NAME IS SPELLED WRONG.
>> R. KELLY'S REPRESENTATIVES
GAVE THAT TO US, REPORTEDLY FROM
JOYCE LYNN, WHO HAS SPELLED HER
OWN NAME WRONG.
>> THAT'S NOT THE FIRST TIME
THAT HAS HAPPENED.
>> YOUR BELIEF IS THAT WAS
DRAFTED BY SOMEBODY?
>> IT WAS DRAFTED BY JAMES
MASON, HIS MANAGER.
>> WE DO SEE JOYCE LYNN ON TAPE,
ON THE TMZ TAPE SAYING I'M FINE.
TO THE AUTHORITIES, SHE'S AN
ADULT.
THERE'S LIMITED AMOUNTS THAT THE
POLICE CAN DO.
BUT TO OTHER PARENTS OUT THERE,
TO WOMEN WHO, LIKE YOU, FOR A
WHILE, WHO DON'T BELIEVE THIS
ABOUT R. KELLY, WHAT SAY YOU?
>> I WANT PEOPLE TO KNOW THAT
MR. R. KELLY THE ENTERTAINER AND
R. KELLY THE MAN ARE TWO
DIFFERENT PEOPLE.
WHAT HE'S DOING TO THESE GIRLS
IS UNBELIEVABLE.
NOT JUST FROM WHAT I'M SAYING
BUT I TALKED TO NUMEROUS YOUNG
LADIES.
NINE YOUNG LADIES HAVE COME OUT
AND FOUR OR FIVE GIRLS ARE STILL
IN THE HOME, INCLUDING MY
DAUGHTER.
>> WE TALK TO WOMEN ON A DAILY
BASIS, WHO CONTACT US.
THEY WANT TO STAY ANONYMOUS.
HE HAS GIVEN STDs THAT ARE
UNCURABLE.
WE HAVE WOMEN THAT CONTACT US
ALL THE TIME.
WE WANT TO BE THERE FOR THOSE
WOMEN.